Project Details

(Part 1) Models 


1.We were approached by the marketing team to answer some questions about Greenery’s users! Use your staging models you created in Week 1 to answer their questions:

What is our user repeat rate?

with t as 
( 
select user_id,count(distinct order_id) as order_count
from dbt.dbt_veena_cc.orders
group by user_id )

select 
count(case when order_count>1 then 1 else NULL end) as repeatorder,
count(user_id) as usercount,
(count(case when order_count>1 then 1 else NULL end) *1.0 /count(user_id))*100  as repeatrate
from t

Ans: 79.84%

2.What are good indicators of a user who will likely purchase again? What about indicators of users who are likely NOT to purchase again? If you had more data, what features would you want to look into to answer this question?
Few hypothesis to answer the questions:
users who have ordered more number of times in the past are likely to order again
Users who have high order values are likely to order again
users who posted positive reviews are likely to order again
users who have experienced positive support experience are more likely to order again
users who have referred to other users are more likely to order again
users who visit the site frequently

Data/ metrics that would help evaluate the hypothesis:
User behavior - # of orders ; Avg order value; new user referral ; site visitation; # of review
user transaction - last order date, time to delivery, support experience
user profile - geography, sex,occupation, 


Explain the marts models you added. Why did you organize the models in the way you did?
Created separate models for core, marketing and product. 
Core model:
Usual metrics that helps core check health of business are around 'revenue' 'orders' and 'site perfomance'. The model can be used to check:
TOtal revenue
Avg order value
Conversion
(split by user profile ,geography, product)

Product:
Model is focused towards metrics like product performance - revenue, promotion usage, user conversion

Marketing:
Tried to build similar to a customer 360, which would help understand customer behavior, life time value and return on promotion 


Part 2) Tests 

What assumptions are you making about each model? (i.e. why are you adding each test?)
MOstly added 'not null' and 'unique' test to make sure data is not corrupted or over indexed 

Did you find any “bad” data as you added and ran tests on your models? How did you go about either cleaning the data in the dbt model or adjusting your assumptions/tests?
No

Your stakeholders at Greenery want to understand the state of the data each day. Explain how you would ensure these tests are passing regularly and how you would alert stakeholders about bad data getting through.

Include tests for freshness of data, corrupt data for models and schedule autogenerated mails/ slack messages to go out to stake holders when there are issues.

